extras/README.md, before:

# About

[![Crates.io](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/bevy_brp_extras.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/bevy_brp_extras)
[![Documentation](https://docs.rs/bevy_brp_extras/badge.svg)](https://docs.rs/bevy_brp_extras/)
[![MIT/Apache 2.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT%2FApache-blue.svg)](https://github.com/natepiano/bevy_brp/extras#license)
[![Crates.io](https://img.shields.io/crates/d/bevy_brp_extras.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/bevy_brp_extras)
[![CI](https://github.com/natepiano/bevy_brp/workflows/CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/natepiano/bevy_brp/actions)

bevy_brp_extras does two things
1. Configures your app for bevy remote protocol (BRP)
2. Adds additional methods that can be used with BRP

## Supported Bevy Versions

| bevy | bevy_brp_extras |
|------|-----------------|
| 0.16 | 0.1 - 0.2       |


## Features

Adds the following Bevvy Remote Protocol methods:
- `brp_extras/screenshot` - Capture screenshots of the primary window
- `brp_extras/shutdown` - Gracefully shutdown the application
- `brp_extras/discover_format` - Get correct data formats for BRP spawn/insert/mutation operations
- `brp_extras/send_keys` - Send keyboard input to the application

## Usage

Add to your `Cargo.toml`:

```toml
[dependencies]
bevy_brp_extras = "0.2"
```

Add the plugin to your Bevy app

```rust
use bevy::prelude::*;
use bevy_brp_extras::BrpExtrasPlugin;

fn main() {
    App::new()
        .add_plugins(DefaultPlugins)
        .add_plugins(BrpExtrasPlugin) // will listen on BRP default port 15702
        .run();
}
```

### Custom Port

You can specify a custom port for the BRP server:

```rust
.add_plugins(BrpExtrasPlugin::with_port(8080))
```

Alternatively, you can set the port at runtime using the `BRP_PORT` environment variable:

```bash
BRP_PORT=8080 cargo run
```

Port priority: `BRP_PORT` environment variable > `with_port()` > default port (15702)

## BRP Method Details

### Screenshot
- **Method**: `brp_extras/screenshot`
- **Parameters**:
  - `path` (string, required): File path where the screenshot should be saved
- **Returns**: Success status with the absolute path where the screenshot will be saved

**Important**: Your Bevy app must have the `png` feature enabled for screenshots to work:
```toml
[dependencies]
bevy = { version = "0.16", features = ["png"] }
```
Without this feature, screenshot files will be created but will be 0 bytes as Bevy cannot encode the image data.

**Note**: If you're not using this with [bevy_brp_mcp](https://github.com/natepiano/bevy_brp/mcp), you'll need to tell your AI agent that this method requires a `path` parameter, or let it discover this by trying the method and getting an error message.

### Shutdown
- **Method**: `brp_extras/shutdown`
- **Parameters**: None
- **Returns**: Success status with shutdown confirmation

### Format Discovery
- **Method**: `brp_extras/discover_format`
- **Parameters**:
  - `types` (array of strings, required): **Fully-qualified component type paths** (e.g., `"bevy_transform::components::transform::Transform"`, not just `"Transform"`)
  - `enable_debug_info` (boolean, optional): Include detailed debug information in the response (default: false)
- **Returns**: Correct JSON structure needed for BRP spawn, insert, and mutation operations

**Why this exists:** Bevy's built-in `bevy/registry/schema` method provides type schemas, but doesn't show the actual JSON format needed for BRP operations. This method bridges that gap by providing the exact data structures required.

Without `bevy_extras/discover_format` what happens is the coding agent will try the BRP methods such as `bevy/spawn` and it will have to do trial and error, parsing error messages until it finally works. And it doesn't always work. With `bevy_extras/discover_format` providing the type information directly, the coding agent can avoid these issues and interact with the BRP much more efficiently.

**Example:**
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:15702/brp_extras/discover_format \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"types": ["bevy_transform::components::transform::Transform", "bevy_core::name::Name"]}'
```

**Important:** Use fully-qualified type paths, not short names. Use `bevy/list` to find the correct paths.

**Response shows:**
- `spawn_format`: How to structure data for `bevy/spawn` operations
- `mutation_info`: Available mutation paths and formats for `bevy/mutate_component` operations

### Send Keys
- **Method**: `brp_extras/send_keys`
- **Parameters**:
  - `keys` (array of strings, required): Key codes to send (e.g., `["KeyA", "Space", "Enter"]`)
  - `duration_ms` (number, optional): How long to hold keys before releasing in milliseconds (default: 100, max: 60000)
- **Returns**: Success status with the keys sent and duration used

Simulates keyboard input by sending press and release events for the specified keys. Keys are pressed simultaneously and held for the specified duration before being released.

**Example:**
```bash
# Send "hi" by pressing H and I keys
curl -X POST http://localhost:15702/brp_extras/send_keys \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"keys": ["KeyH", "KeyI"]}'

# Hold space key for 2 seconds
curl -X POST http://localhost:15702/brp_extras/send_keys \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"keys": ["Space"], "duration_ms": 2000}'
```

## Integration with bevy_brp_mcp

This crate is designed to work seamlessly with [bevy_brp_mcp](https://github.com/natepiano/bevy_brp/mcp), which provides a Model Context Protocol (MCP) server for controlling Bevy apps. When both are used together:

1. Add `BrpExtrasPlugin` to your Bevy app
2. Use `bevy_brp_mcp` with your AI coding assistant
3. The additional methods will be automatically discovered and made available in the MCP server so you won't have to manually implement or execute (as with the curl examples above)

## License

Dual-licensed under either:
- MIT license ([LICENSE-MIT](LICENSE-MIT) or http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
- Apache License, Version 2.0 ([LICENSE-APACHE](LICENSE-APACHE) or http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)

at your option.

Commit message:

refactor: remove brp_extras/discover_format in favor of brp_type_schema
- Remove discovery module and brp_extras/discover_format method from extras crate
- Delete brp_extras_discover_format MCP tool
- Consolidate format discovery logic into mcp's brp_type_schema module
- Add helper methods to TypeInfo for field type checking
- Update documentation to reflect removal of discover_format method

The format discovery functionality is now handled entirely by the
brp_type_schema tool, eliminating redundancy between the extras crate
and MCP server while maintaining all format discovery capabilities.

extras/README.md, after:

# About

[![Crates.io](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/bevy_brp_extras.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/bevy_brp_extras)
[![Documentation](https://docs.rs/bevy_brp_extras/badge.svg)](https://docs.rs/bevy_brp_extras/)
[![MIT/Apache 2.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT%2FApache-blue.svg)](https://github.com/natepiano/bevy_brp/extras#license)
[![Crates.io](https://img.shields.io/crates/d/bevy_brp_extras.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/bevy_brp_extras)
[![CI](https://github.com/natepiano/bevy_brp/workflows/CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/natepiano/bevy_brp/actions)

bevy_brp_extras does two things
1. Configures your app for bevy remote protocol (BRP)
2. Adds additional methods that can be used with BRP

## Supported Bevy Versions

| bevy | bevy_brp_extras |
|------|-----------------|
| 0.16 | 0.1 - 0.2       |


## Features

Adds the following Bevvy Remote Protocol methods:
- `brp_extras/screenshot` - Capture screenshots of the primary window
- `brp_extras/shutdown` - Gracefully shutdown the application
- `brp_extras/send_keys` - Send keyboard input to the application
- `brp_extras/set_window_title` - Change the primary window title

## Usage

Add to your `Cargo.toml`:

```toml
[dependencies]
bevy_brp_extras = "0.2"
```

Add the plugin to your Bevy app

```rust
use bevy::prelude::*;
use bevy_brp_extras::BrpExtrasPlugin;

fn main() {
    App::new()
        .add_plugins(DefaultPlugins)
        .add_plugins(BrpExtrasPlugin) // will listen on BRP default port 15702
        .run();
}
```

### Custom Port

You can specify a custom port for the BRP server:

```rust
.add_plugins(BrpExtrasPlugin::with_port(8080))
```

Alternatively, you can set the port at runtime using the `BRP_PORT` environment variable:

```bash
BRP_PORT=8080 cargo run
```

Port priority: `BRP_PORT` environment variable > `with_port()` > default port (15702)

## BRP Method Details

### Screenshot
- **Method**: `brp_extras/screenshot`
- **Parameters**:
  - `path` (string, required): File path where the screenshot should be saved
- **Returns**: Success status with the absolute path where the screenshot will be saved

**Important**: Your Bevy app must have the `png` feature enabled for screenshots to work:
```toml
[dependencies]
bevy = { version = "0.16", features = ["png"] }
```
Without this feature, screenshot files will be created but will be 0 bytes as Bevy cannot encode the image data.

**Note**: If you're not using this with [bevy_brp_mcp](https://github.com/natepiano/bevy_brp/mcp), you'll need to tell your AI agent that this method requires a `path` parameter, or let it discover this by trying the method and getting an error message.

### Shutdown
- **Method**: `brp_extras/shutdown`
- **Parameters**: None
- **Returns**: Success status with shutdown confirmation

### Send Keys
- **Method**: `brp_extras/send_keys`
- **Parameters**:
  - `keys` (array of strings, required): Key codes to send (e.g., `["KeyA", "Space", "Enter"]`)
  - `duration_ms` (number, optional): How long to hold keys before releasing in milliseconds (default: 100, max: 60000)
- **Returns**: Success status with the keys sent and duration used

Simulates keyboard input by sending press and release events for the specified keys. Keys are pressed simultaneously and held for the specified duration before being released.

**Example:**
```bash
# Send "hi" by pressing H and I keys
curl -X POST http://localhost:15702/brp_extras/send_keys \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"keys": ["KeyH", "KeyI"]}'

# Hold space key for 2 seconds
curl -X POST http://localhost:15702/brp_extras/send_keys \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"keys": ["Space"], "duration_ms": 2000}'
```

### Set Window Title
- **Method**: `brp_extras/set_window_title`
- **Parameters**:
  - `title` (string, required): The new title for the primary window
- **Returns**: Success status with the old and new window titles

Changes the title of the primary window.

**Example:**
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:15702/brp_extras/set_window_title \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"title": "My Game - Level 2"}'
```

## Integration with bevy_brp_mcp

This crate is designed to work seamlessly with [bevy_brp_mcp](https://github.com/natepiano/bevy_brp/mcp), which provides a Model Context Protocol (MCP) server for controlling Bevy apps. When both are used together:

1. Add `BrpExtrasPlugin` to your Bevy app
2. Use `bevy_brp_mcp` with your AI coding assistant
3. The additional methods will be automatically discovered and made available in the MCP server so you won't have to manually implement or execute (as with the curl examples above)

## License

Dual-licensed under either:
- MIT license ([LICENSE-MIT](LICENSE-MIT) or http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
- Apache License, Version 2.0 ([LICENSE-APACHE](LICENSE-APACHE) or http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)

at your option.
